---
layout: page
title: Favorite Games
permalink: /favorite-games/
---

<!-- Game of the Year: [2016][goty-2016] -->

### Of All Time

1. Final Fantasy VI (SNES)


### Game of the Year

<a name='goty-2016'></a>

#### 2016

_Still deciding_

### 1. Hitman (PS4)

I always wanted to love this series, but it wasn't until this most recent release
that it could be realized. Thanks to Giantbomb's coverage of this exceptional
game, I learned to love the mistake-ridden mayhem (let me be clear: the mistakes
are all mine). I have hit max mastery in each level, and know them all by heart.

Hitman doesn't take itself seriously, and each destination is a playground. Every
map is somebody else's favortie. And maps that I weren't too keen on originally
would grow on me once I became familiar with them. This became essential when I
started doing Elusive Targets, because you only get one chance to get in, take
them out, and get out. Oh, and you can't save.

I remember introducing my nephew to this game. As a shooter fanatic, he was so bad
it was hilarious. His penchant for guns got him in more trouble, and it was
awesome. I remember the first time I picked up a cannon ball in Sapienza. The way
he laughed when I threw it at an npc's face will stay with me forever.

### 2. Dark Souls III (PS4)

The Souls series has always been something I have watched from a distance. I've
never considered myself a fan of the difficulty. Well, not until 2016.

Dark Souls III was my first Souls game. I saw it being streamed a lot on Twitch,
and it wasn't until a week after it came out that the itch began. A quick rental
was followed by a purchase. And then, it got its hooks in me.

I can count on one hand the number of games I have replayed because I find them
challenging. "Man, that was fun. Let's do it again, this time, with _[insert
self-imposed restriction]_." It wasn't helping that I was watching people attempt
to do no-hit runs. While watching them was fun, I decided armorless runs were for
me. 

So, for the first time in ages, I was replaying a game because the challenge was
rewarding. And the boss I struggled with the most was the Twin Princes, regardless
of the type of run. So enjoy my favorite highlight:

<iframe width="720" height="405" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/DwwKBSCZ8C0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### 3. Watch_Dogs 2 (PS4)

I wasn't quite sure what to expect with Watch_Dogs 2. I stayed far away from the
first game after hearing the lackluster response. Imagine my surprise when I was
captivated with the sequel. An open world game where dealing with the environment
and its denizens requires use of gadgets (and scissor lifts)!? Sign me up!

The side characters each had interesting stories, and the hacks that you get to
perform with alongside them made me smile so very big. From remote-controlling cars,
to destroying voting machines to the tune of _Fortunate Son_, to hacking into
satellite systems and using those to perform remote hacks, it doesn't let up.

### 4. Stardew Valley (PC & PS4)

What a whirlwind adventure I had with Stardew Valley. Over 150 hours spent in it
between the PC and PS4 version, and it's something else.

Charming music, interesting villagers, and crop-growing mechanic that eventually
proves quite lucrative. Oh, and did I mention exploring the caves?

I love the art style, and just the overall flavor of the game. The fact that this
was the work of a single developer is pretty crazy. I enjoyed every part. Well,
every part of the first 7 months. Winter of year 2 can become a slog, and that's
where both of my playthroughs floundered. But man, what an amazing 7 months.

### 5. DOOM (PS4)

DOOM was a great game. From the guns to the glory kills, to just all-out room
battles. I caught myself smiling more than once, especially towards the conclusion.
This was definitely the game I heard the most about before I played it, and it
held up to the hype.

I really liked the assortment of weapons. I generally am not the craziest FPS
player, but I like what I like, and the choices here felt really fleshed out. I
had to laugh, though, when I picked up the Super Shotgun (a sawed-off shotgun),
because I knew I was in for some fun. It became my main choice for nearly every
non-boss baddie.

The level design was pretty good, overall. The differing vistas of Mars and Hell
never felt old, or overstayed their welcome. They were tied together quite well,
and the story (yes, the story in a single-player FPS) was actually quite good.
From the backstory of the DOOM Slayer told from the perspective of demons, to the
desire of infinite energy for mankind, it was quite intriguing. Especially the
player character's complete lack of care for anything that didn't involve violence.

### 6. The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt (PS4)

I didn't like Geralt until I saw his interactions with Ciri. And then he made more
sense to me. The fact that this game is on my list comes down to two reasons:
Yenefer and Ciri.


[goty-2016]: #goty-2016
