---
layout: post
title: New Goals
date: 2020-05-04 15:20:43
tags:
- goals
- elixir
- elm
- javascript
- go
---

I like to learn new things, but over the past few months, that's gone kind of stale.
So, in an effort to improve myself, I thought I might take the initiative and get back in
the swing of things.

Here's the languages I'm going to spend time with, and a short list of the goals I would
like to achieve. In no particular order...

## Go

My biggest hindrance is using concurrency, everything else seems to be good. So I would
like to wrap my brain around some practice examples just to make sure I'm applying it in
ways that are real-world-enough.

## Elixir

I've dabbled with it enough to know that I like it, but not enough to be comfortable. I'd
like to get there, along with the concurrency that it apparently excels at. I have no
plans to make Phoenix a part of this, but if the course / book takes me there, then I will
consider it.

## JavaScript

It's been years since I've focused on this. ES6 wasn't even a thought. AJAX was a new,
uncoined phrase. I'd like to get back up to speed. This might include Node.js, but unlikely.
My goal is to get comfortable writing a JavaScript-laden page without using jQuery or any
other tool.

## Elm

I've been wanting to learn Elm for some time. I figure if I know the hard parts of JS
then I can also see where this alleviates those problems. I've heard nothing but good things
and would like to write a couple plugins and patch those into existing HTML pages.
